# Goofy Protocol FIS (Federated Identity Server) Backend

WIP "Reference" Implementation of a FIS for Goofy Protocol.

## TODOs
* Start implementing API Endpoints + Services + DB Entities + FileStorage + DB Management + Config
  * Document Spec
* Start implementing CLI Client
* Add Config for HandleCrypto Cache/Maps (size, expiration, etc)
* Move the Crypto Core Lib into a seperate package with tests, known values and pom.xml
* Test to see if AI can translate the Java Crypto Code into JS (Browser/NodeJS) modules and test against known values
* Try writing Frontend using JS/TS + Modules if possible
* Implement silly Rate Limiting (only for prod/develop)
  * Requests without a special cookies token will have to wait some time before their request is processed / get extra low prio / strong rate limiting, then they will get the special cookie
  * Ideally Requests without the special cookie dont even get their handle derived/checked and get put on a queue with max size (random elimination) or so to prevent DoS attacks
  * Requests with the cookie will get individual rate limiting based on their unique cookie (if valid) / maybe also based on the handle
* Create extra DB Table for known FIS Domains ?

## Features
(TODO)

## Setup
(TODO)

## Notes
(TODO)

## Profiles
There are currently 3 Profiles:
* `dev` - Development Profile, used for local development and testing
* `prod` - Production Profile, used for production deployment
* `test` - Test Profile, used internally for executing tests

The dev and prod Profiles use different databases and the test Profile uses an in-memory database for testing purposes.

(TODO)

### File Storage
File Storage will also depend on the Profile used, for now its not implemented. 
To set the path I will probably use something like this:
```java
public FileStorageService(@Value("${app.storage.dir}") String dir) {
    this.baseDir = Path.of(dir);
}
```

The Test Data Path should also be fully reset on launch of the Test Profile, so that tests can be executed without any side effects from previous test runs.


## Implementation Details
(TODO)





### Symmetric Cryptography
(TODO)

#### Supported Algorithms
Supported types can be seen in the `SymmCryptoType` Enum, currently they are:
* AES-128-GCM
* AES-196-GCM
* AES-256-GCM
* ChaCha20

#### Symmetrically Encrypted Data Format
(TODO)

#### Algorithm Implementations
(TODO)

Supported Types:
* AES-128-GCM
* AES-196-GCM
* AES-256-GCM
* ChaCha20

For now, you can look into the [Implementations](src/main/java/com/masl/goofy_protocol_core/crypto/isolated/symm).







### Asymmetric (/Hybrid) Cryptography
(TODO)

#### Supported Algorithms
Supported types can be seen in the `AsymmCryptoType` Enum, currently they are:
* RSA 2048
* RSA 3072
* RSA 4096
* EC_P256 
* EC_P384
* EC_C25519
* ML-KEM (512) + ML-DSA (44)
* ML-KEM (768) + ML-DSA (65)
* ML-KEM (1024) + ML-DSA (87)


#### Public Split Key Format
(TODO)

`PUB.[TYPE].[SIG KEY].[ENC KEY].[ENC SIG]` / `PUB.[TYPE].[SIG KEY].X.X`

In more Detail:
```
[TYPE] - The Type of Algorithm(s) used for the Split Keypair
[SIG KEY] - The Public Key used for signing, Format: X509EncodedKeySpec as Base64 URLEncoded String
[ENC KEY] - The Public Key used for encryption, Format: X509EncodedKeySpec as Base64 URLEncoded String
[ENC SIG] - The Signature of the Public Key used for encryption, Format: Signature Bytes as Base64 URLEncoded String
```
Note: Some algorithms (RSA, EC) do not need a separate encryption key, so the `[ENC KEY]` and `[ENC SIG]` fields are both replaced with `` in those cases.
Technically, you can add them anyway but it wastes space and is not needed.

The Encoding Signature is used to verify that the Public Key used for encryption is valid 
and was generated by the same entity that generated the Public Key used for signing.


Examples:
```
RSA 2048 (~410 bytes)
PUB.RSA_2048.MIIBIjAt<...>IDAQAB.X.X

EC 256 (~140 bytes)
PUB.EC_256.MFkwEwYHK<...>fhckKxUUDcQ==.X.X

ML-KEM/DSA 512/44 (~6126 bytes)
PUB.MLKEMDSA_512_44.MIIFMjA<...>8EML0hY=.MIIDM<...>PJnu_MKWR.8dC<...>A0gMEA=
```

#### Private Split Key Format
(TODO)


#### Signature Format
Normally a Base64 URLEncoded String of the resulting Signature Bytes. 
The underlying Format depends on the Signature Algorithm used, which is defined in the Public Split Key.


#### Asymmetrically Encrypted Data Format
(TODO)


#### Algorithm Implementations
(TODO)

Supported Types:
* RSA 2048
* RSA 3072
* RSA 4096
* EC_P256
* EC_P384
* EC_C25519
* ML-KEM (512) + ML-DSA (44)
* ML-KEM (768) + ML-DSA (65)
* ML-KEM (1024) + ML-DSA (87)

Asymmetric Cryptography is usually used in a hybrid way, where the actual data is symmetrically encrypted and the symmetric key is asymmetrically encrypted with the public key of the recipient.
The Implementations rely on the Symmetric Cryptography Implementations for the actual data encryption and decryption.
Currently, by default `AES_GCM_256` is used for the symmetric encryption of the data.
One outlier for the statement above is the Asymmetric Encryption using P-256/384, as it uses `ECIESwithAES-CBC` directly.


For now, you can look into the [Implementations](src/main/java/com/masl/goofy_protocol_core/crypto/isolated/asymm).








### User Handle
The User Handle is a unique identifier for a user (or rather a keypair) in the Goofy Protocol. 
It is used to identify a user and their associated public split key and is globally unique across all domains.

The handle is tightly coupled to the public key by being derived from it, so it is not possible to change the handle without changing the public key and vice versa.
This also means that the handle can always be verified to be correct by deriving it from the public key and comparing it to the handle.

The specific derivation is specified below in more detail.

Format: `[word]_[word]NNNNN` / `[word]_[word]_[word]NNNNN` / `[word]_[word]_[word]_[word]NNNNN`

In more Detail:
```
[word] - A Word chosen from the List in `handle_words.json (there can be 2-4 words in a handle)`
NNNNN - A Number from 0 to 99999
```

Example: `beray_drubs_pant57107`

#### Domain Parts
Usually, handles do not have the domain attached and shouldn't be stored as one string with the domain attached.
This is because the handle should be portable and not tied to a specific domain.
Of course the current domain for a handle should be stored, just separately and only used when needed. (For example looking up the public split key)

A username with an attached domain has the following format:
`[handle]@[domain]`

Example: `beray_drubs_pant57107@fis.rocc.systems`

NOTE: When sending a signed request with only your handle, it is advised to attach the domain, if theres a chance the Server doesn't know it yet.
If the server cannot resolve your handle, it will throw an error and ideally your client would send the handle with the domain attached.



#### Cryptographic Handle Derivation
(TODO)


See [Example Implementation](src/main/java/com/masl/goofy_protocol_core/crypto/connected/HandleCrypto.java) for a working example of the Handle Derivation.



#### Strength
(TODO)
```
// Strength of handles
// c = 2 -> ~44 bit (15000^2 * 10^5 = 2.3e13)
// c = 3 -> ~58 bit (15000^3 * 10^5 = 3.4e17)
// c = 4 -> ~72 bit (15000^4 * 10^5 = 5.1e21)
```




### Signed Requests
(TODO)

#### Parts
(TODO)

#### Headers
The following headers are needed for Signed Requests:
* `X-Goofy-Public-Key`: The Public Split Key of the Sender (format defined above)
* `X-Goofy-Handle`: The Handle of the Sender (format defined above, can have a domain attached)
* `X-Goofy-Signature`: The Signature of the Request (format defined above)
* `X-Goofy-Id`: A random Id in the form of a Long (64bit) Integer, used to prevent replay attacks (The server wont store them forever usually)
* `X-Goofy-Valid-Until`: A timestamp in the form of a Long (64bit) Integer representing the time in milliseconds since epoch, used to enforce a time limit on the validity of the request

The default validity of a Signed Request should be 60 seconds. This is because surprisingly a lot of devices arent closely synchronized with the actual time and can be off by some time. (Sometimes even multiple minutes)

#### Signature
(TODO)

Servers should reject requests with a valid until timestamp, which has already passed or is too far in the future (for example >1h).

#### Validity
(TODO)


#### Signature Sizes
Below are some rough measurements of the average added size of the total headers using Signed Requests.

Using the Public Split Key (usually larger)
```
RSA 2048:                       ~900 bytes
RSA 3072:                     ~1,200 bytes
RSA 4096:                     ~1,500 bytes
EC_P256:                        ~350 bytes
EC_P384:                        ~400 bytes
EC_C25519:                      ~400 bytes
ML-KEM (512)  + ML-DSA (44):  ~9,500 bytes
ML-KEM (768)  + ML-DSA (65): ~13,200 bytes
ML-KEM (1024) + ML-DSA (87): ~18,100 bytes
```

Using Handles only (in general smaller)
```
RSA 2048:                       ~500 bytes
RSA 3072:                       ~600 bytes
RSA 4096:                       ~800 bytes
EC_P256:                        ~200 bytes
EC_P384:                        ~250 bytes
EC_C25519:                      ~200 bytes
ML-KEM (512)  + ML-DSA (44):  ~3,350 bytes
ML-KEM (768)  + ML-DSA (65):  ~4,500 bytes
ML-KEM (1024) + ML-DSA (87):  ~6,300 bytes
```